
Constitution of the Associated Students of West Valley College



Preamble
We the students of West Valley College, in order to form an efficient, representative student government, to encourage greater student participation in the governance of West Valley College and the West Valley-Mission Community College District, to promote and direct those student activities which stimulate the intellectual, physical, and social life of our college, and to improve relations within the college community; do hereby establish this constitution and assume the powers and duties of self-government pursuant to policies of the Board of Trustees of the West Valley-Mission Community College District as authorized in Section 7606D of the California Educational Code.


ARTICLE I
Name
Section 1: The name of this organization shall be the Associated Students of West Valley College (ASWVC).


ARTICLE II
Conduct
Section 1: This organization and/or its members, while functioning as representatives of the
ASWVC and/or the College shall be committed to a policy of non-discrimination, specifically, the ASWVC shall be not for profit, non-partisan, and the ASWVC shall be in compliance with West Valley-Mission Community College District Board policies regarding equal opportunity at all times.

ARTICLE III
Bylaws
Section 1: The bylaws of this Constitution shall be the lawful means whereby the purposes and
principles of this Constitution shall be implemented.

ARTICLE IV
Rules of Order
Section 1: Except as explicitly provided to the contrary in this constitution and its bylaws, the
most current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the procedures of the ASWVC.

ARTICLE V
Membership
Section 1: All registered students of West Valley College, whom have paid the Student
Representation Fee or have had the aforementioned fee waived, shall be members of ASWVC and shall be entitled to all the privileges and rights thereof.

ARTICLE VI
Organization
Section 1: The ASWVC will comprise an Executive Board and a Student Senate.
Section 2: The ASWVC Executive Board shall consist of a President, Vice President, six (6) Directors, and a Student Trustee.
Section 3: The requirements to hold office within the ASWVC shall be enumerated in the
Bylaws of this constitution.
Section 4: All ASWVC Executive Board members and Student Senate members must be elected
into office, as outlined within the Bylaws of this constitution.

ARTICLE VII
Constitutional Amendments
Section 1: This Constitution may be amended by referendum from the Student Senate in a
special Election submitted to the ASWVC Senate, provided that:
Clause 1: Constitutional amendments shall be publicly posted and announced in a regular meeting of the ASWVC Senate, as outlined in the bylaws of this constitution, for at least fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days immediately prior to the election.
Clause 2: Adoption of amendments to this Constitution shall require two-thirds (2/3) favorable vote of those legal ballots cast in an election of the ASWVC.
Section 1: A legal ballot shall be defined as a physical or electronic document that includes a form of identification—used to prevent miscount of the votes—as well as the voting members declaration of either yea or nay for the proposed amendment.
    A. Said legal ballot must be easily accessible for one (1) year after the voting process to future Executive Board Members for the purpose of record keeping
Section 2: Voting may be conducted through a physical document created by the ASWVC Executive Board
Section 3: Voting may be conducted through electronic means
Section 4: A student may only vote once (1), either yea or nay, for the proposed constitutional amendment.
Clause 3: The voting period on the suggested constitutional amendment shall remain open for a minimum of ten (10) days.
Clause 4: Adoption of amendments to this constitution shall be effective immediately upon certification of the election results by the ASWVC Advisor.

Constitutional Amendment Log
January 1984 		Adoption of Constitution
August 1993 		“treasure” typo corrected
December 1994 	Name Change, ASBWVC to ASWVC
December 1994 	Article VI, Section 1, Clause 1, 10% changed to 5% 12/94 Rules of Order
change Sturgis to Roberts
September 2007 	Constitution Retyped
April 2016		Name Changed from Associated Student Organization to
Associate Student of West Valley College (ASWVC), Positions within ASWVC redefined, and Constitution Retyped
March 2023		Article I, Associated Students at West Valley College changed to
Associated Students of West Valley College
Article VI, Section 2, The ASWVC Executive Board shall consist of a President, three (3) Vice Presidents, and a Student Trustee changed to The ASWVC Executive Board shall consist of a President, Vice President, six (6) Directors, and a Student Trustee.
Article VII, Section 1, Clause 1, Constitutional amendments shall be publicly posted, as outlined in the bylaws of this constitution for at least fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days immediately prior to the election changed to Constitutional amendments shall be publicly posted and announced in a regular meeting of the ASWVC Senate, as outlined in the bylaws of this constitution, for at least fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days immediately prior to the election.
Article VII, Section 1, Clause 2, Section 1 added.
Article VII, Section 1, Clause 2, Section 1, Subsection A added.
Article VII, Section 1, Clause 2, Section 2 added.
Article VII, Section 1, Clause 2, Section 3 added.
Article VII, Section 1, Clause 2, Section 4 added.













Bylaws of the
Associated Students of West Valley College


ARTICLE I
Legal Statutes
Section 1: All senate business shall be conducted in accordance with the Brown Act. This includes, but is not limited to: all meetings, all notices, all agendas and the rights of the public.


ARTICLE II
Membership
Section 1: Members of the Associated Students of West Valley College (ASWVC) are outlined
in Article V Section I of the ASWVC Constitution.
Section 2: Non-voting (Ex Officio) members of the ASWVC shall include but not be limited to
the ASWVC AdvisorDirector of Finance.

ARTICLE III
Executive Board
Section 1: The Executive Board consists of the ASWVC President, Vice President, Director of Finance, Director of Marketing, Director of Records, Director of Student Engagement, Director of External Operations, Director of Club Relations, and a Student Trustee.
Section 2: The Executive Board’s term of office shall end on the last day of the Spring Semester.
The newly elected Executive Board shall assume office on the following academic day of Summer Session.
Clause 1:With the exception of the Student Trustee, whose term shall begin and end in accordance with the Board of Trustees.

ARTICLE IV
Meetings
Section 1: For guidelines on parliamentary procedure, ASWVC will use Robert's Rules of Order in all meetings, except in the cases where these bylaws or other special rules conflict, or Robert’s Rules are suspended as shown in Article IV Section 2.
Section 2: These rules may be suspended by article and section by a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the voting members present.
Section 3: Suspension of rules shall apply only to the meeting during which the vote was taken.
Section 4: The regular ASWVC Senate meetings will be held on Tuesdays and as written in the agenda of the previous meeting, commencing the first week of the semester and ending the week prior to finals.
Section 5: The regular ASWVC Executive Board meetings will be held on Thursdays and as written in the agenda of the previous meeting, commencing the first week of the semester and ending the week prior to finals.
Section 6: All regular meetings of the ASWVC, excluding committee meetings, shall be held at 3:45 p.m. throughout the academic year and given ample (72 hours) notification in accordance with the Brown Act.
Clause 1: This time can be changed with two-thirds (2/3) favorable vote of the ASWVC, provided there are no conflicts with the College’s schedule.
Clause 2: Any regular meeting still in session after two (2) hours of the day on which it began shall immediately adjourn, unless the ASWVC extends the meeting (for a specified amount of time) by a two thirds (2/3) favorable vote of the members present and voting.
Clause 3: Regular meetings of the ASWVC Senate shall not be held during Summer Session and Winter Session of West Valley College.
Section 7: Meeting Norms
Clause 1: Each speaker shall be formally recognized by the acting Chairperson.
Clause 2: Debate on each item being considered by the Senate shall be limited to fifteen (15) minutes unless otherwise specified by a motion that is passed by a majority vote.
Clause 3: Debate shall be extended ten (10) minutes at a time.
Clause 4: Meetings of the Associated Students of West Valley College (ASWVC) shall be open to the general public. Meetings shall be closed to the public only when personnel matters are being considered.
Clause 5: All legislation presented to the Senate shall be presented on the floor of the Senate, with the reading of the legislation to be followed by a motion and a second for the adoption of the legislation.
Section 8: Meeting Agendas and Minutes
Clause 1: Items to be placed on the agenda shall be submitted to the appropriate Chairperson at least 72 hours prior to the meeting.
Clause 2: All ASWVC meeting minutes will be made available to the public within 72 hours prior to the next meeting.
Section 9: Quorum must be established to take vote on any items, which is defined as 51% of active members with voting rights.
Section 10: Special or emergency meetings may be called by any ASWVC Executive Officer or by a majority of the currently voting Senators.
Clause 1: A special or emergency meeting can only be called in accordance with the Brown Act and must follow all Brown Act requirements.
Clause 2: If an Officer or Senator has class at the time of the special or emergency meeting, the student will be excused with no repercussion for attendance for regularly scheduled meetings.
Clause 3: All special or emergency meetings must be presided in the same manner as regular meetings.



ARTICLE V
Voting Rights
Section 1: Senate voting privileges are limited to ASWVC Senators, Director of Finance, Director of Marketing, Director of Records, Director of Student Engagement, Director of External Operations, Director of Club Relations, and the Student Trustee.
Clause 1: The ASWVC Vice President can vote only in the event of a tie.
Clause 2: The ASWVC President has the power of veto, but has no vote in the Senate.
Section 2: Executive Board voting privileges are limited to the ASWVC Vice President, Director of Finance, Director of Marketing, Director of Records, Director of Student Engagement, Director of External Operations, Director of Club Relations, and the Student Trustee.
Clause 1: The ASWVC President can vote only in the event of a tie.
Clause 2: As a voting member of the ASWVC Senate, any Senators running for candidacy in an ASWVC Vacancy Process maintain the right to vote for themselves when presented to the ASWVC Senate for a roll call vote.
Section 3: All voting members maintain the right to only vote once (1).


ARTICLE VI
Requirements for Executive Board Officers
Section 1: Grade Point Average (GPA) Requirements
Clause 1: All Executive Board members must have a 2.0 cumulative GPA and maintain a 2.0 GPA during their time in Office.
Clause 2: New students to West Valley College, without completed units will have the GPA requirement waived until their first completed semester.
Clause 3: All officers must be enrolled in five (5) or more units at the time of their election and during their time in office or they will be automatically removed at the next regular ASWVC meeting.
Clause 4: All Executive Board members must remain in good standing with the West Valley College Student Code of Conduct, as well as all West Valley College Campus Policies and West Valley College Board Policies.
A. 	If a candidate in a regular ASWVC Election or ASWVC Vacancy Process is in violation of the West Valley College Student Code of Conduct, their candidacy may be immediately removed.
B. 	If an Executive Board member is in violation of the West Valley College Student Code of Conduct, they may be immediately removed from office.
Clause 5: All Executive Board members must be in consistent attendance and have no existing scheduling conflicts with all regular ASWVC Senate meetings and ASWVC Executive Board meetings throughout the entirety of the academic school year.

ARTICLE VII
ASWVC Executive Board Officers Accountability
Section 1: Conditions of Office
Clause 1: No student may hold more than one permanent ASWVC position, unless circumstances deem it “urgent and necessary,” with a two-thirds (2/3) favorable vote of the Senate.
Clause 2: A student may not be elected or appointed to the same Executive Board position for more than two (2) consecutive years.
Clause 3: A student may not serve on the Executive Board for more than three (3) years within a five (5) year period.
Clause 4: For purposes of determining eligibility to continue in office, an officer who has served more than half a term is considered to have served a full term.
Section 2: Absences and Tardiness for ASWVC-Sponsored Meetings and Events
Clause 1: For an excused absence, the ASWVC Senator or ASWVC Executive Board member must give adequate notice of being absent or be absent for an emergency or medical reason.
    A. Adequate notice shall be defined as notifying the respective meeting Chair 72 hours in advance of the meeting at which the ASWVC Senator or ASWVC Executive Board member cannot be in attendance.
    B. If an Executive Board Officer is unable to attend an event for a non-emergency related matter such as a schedule conflict, the Executive Board Officer shall communicate that absence to the ASWVC President 72 hours in advance. This shall be considered an excused absence.
    C. If an Executive Board Officer is unable to attend a Senate or Committee Meeting, they shall communicate their absence 72 hours in advance to the Vice President.
    D. If an Executive Board Officer is unable to attend an Executive Board Meeting, they shall communicate their absence 72 hours in advance to the President.
    E. All other absences shall be considered unexcused.
Clause 2: In the event that the Officer has had five (5) unexcused absences, it is recommended that the Executive Board submit a “Vote of No Confidence” to the ASWVC Senate for that Executive Board Officer.
    A. Two (2) instances of tardiness shall equal (1) unexcused absence. For the purpose of calculating absences, tardiness is defined as arriving after the roll call or after the posted start time of an ASWVC-Sponsored Event.
    B. Two (2) excused absences shall equal (1) unexcused absence.
Clause 3: Paid Hours
    A. All ASWVC officers shall post and hold a minimum of three (3) “Office Hours” per week on behalf of the students that must be spent in their ASWVC office.
    B. All ASWVC officers shall post and hold a minimum of three (3) “Work Hours” per week that must be spent on West Valley College’s Campus.
    C. Three (3) instances of an officer failing to hold these hours, as posted,
shall equal one (1) absence, unless excused by the President or Presiding Officer (if President is not available).
Clause 4: The President, Vice President, Director of Student Engagement, and Director of Records shall keep a public record of all unexcused and excused absences for Executive Board Officers.

ARTICLE VIII
Executive Board Election Process
Section 1: The Election Committee shall be composed of the President, or designee if the current President is running for a position, the ASWVC Advisor, the Director of Marketing, Director of Records, Director of Student Engagement, Director of External Operations, Director of Club Relations,  and two Senate members who are not running for elected office. The purpose of this committee will be to plan and communicate the election timeline, provide platforms for candidates to campaign to the student body, and ensure that Article VIII, Section 2 through Section 8 and fair election procedures are followed.
Section 2: Prospective candidates must submit an application for consideration by the Election Committee by the specified deadline.
Clause 1: Notification of officer position openings is to be provided to all students and shall contain the following: 1) position title, 2) description of the job, 3) term of office, 4) deadline for the application, 5) phone number, 6) address or building number for further information, and 7) requirements for the position.
Clause 2: In the event that there are no applications submitted, the Election Committee may extend the application deadline for that position.
Clause 3: A student may apply for only one position during an election process.
Section 3: Committee members shall consider all applications as private and confidential information, during the formal screening process. Discussion of the candidate's personal qualifications/information shall remain confidential between the committee and the said candidate.
Section 4: The ASWVC Advisor will retain all applications for one academic year, after which they may be destroyed.
Section 5: The election process, including a public notice of those elected, shall be completed by three (3) weeks prior to the end of the academic year. The election process shall begin anytime after ten (10) weeks prior to the end of the academic year.
Section 6: The application for candidacy shall be open for a minimum of ten (10) days. The voting for candidates shall take place for seven (7) days.
Section 7: Elections will be conducted among all currently enrolled West Valley Students.
Section 8: Elections may be conducted via electronic software.




ARTICLE IX
Vacancies in the Executive Board
Section 1: If a position, other than President, is vacated for any reason, the ASWVC Senate shall fill the position by a majority vote.
Clause 1: The line of succession for Executive Board Members in the event of an absence in the office of the President shall be 1. Vice President, 2. Director of Finance, 3. Director of Student Engagement, 4. Director of Marketing, 5. Director of Records, 6. Director of External Operations, 7. Director of Club Relations, and 8. the Student Trustee.
Clause 2: All vacancies shall be posted for a minimum of one week, in the same manner as the ASWVC meeting agendas.
Section 2: Interested students must fill out an application for the open position.
Clause 1: Before being appointed all individuals must be interviewed by the Executive Board at an Executive Board meeting.
Clause 2: The Executive Board will then forward two candidates to face off in a regular meeting of the ASWVC Senate for consideration.
A. 	In the event that only one student applies for any position, the Executive Board may put forth only one candidate to the Senate.
Clause 3: The successor to any position vacated will be appointed by a majority of the Senate.
Clause 4: Any position filled by the Senate shall be for the remaining period of office in said term.

ARTICLE X
Vote of No Confidence
Section 1: Grounds for removal of office of a Senator or Executive Board Officer shall be limited to malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance.
Section 2: A Senator or Executive Board Officer may immediately  be removed without a Vote of No Confidence by the College Conduct Officer if the student has been found in violation of the Student Code of Conduct.
Section 3: Removal of Senators and Executive Officers as per a Vote of No Confidence.
Clause 1: Any member of the Senate with active voting rights has the right to request a vote of no confidence.
Clause 2: A vote of no confidence applies to Senators and Executive Board Officers.
Clause 3: The request for a vote of no confidence must be lodged in an open, regularly scheduled meeting of the Senate.
    A. A Vote of No Confidence shall be requested by a voting member of the Senate under Public Comments.
Clause 4: The vote of no confidence shall be taken at the next scheduled meeting after the initial request.
Clause 5: A two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Senate members present and voting shall be necessary to qualify as a "vote of no confidence."
    A. Should the Vote of No Confidence be put forth against a voting member of the ASWVC Senate or the ASWVC Executive Board, that individual does not retain the right to vote in their own Vote of No Confidence.
Clause 6: A vote of no confidence shall result in a removal of office and the loss of voting rights.
Clause 7: A vote of no confidence is not subject to a presidential veto.
Clause 8: Any person who receives a vote of no confidence has the right to appeal to the ASWVC Advisor within five (5) business days.

ARTICLE XI
Committees
Section 1: The Vice President shall have the ability to appoint individuals to any Ad Hoc committees.
Section 2: The Bylaws Committee shall be composed of the Vice President, and at least three additional Senate members. The Director of Records, or designee shall serve as an Ex-Officio member of the committee for minute recording purposes.
Clause 1: The Vice President shall serve as the Chairperson, or assign a designee if absent.
Clause 2: The Bylaws Committee shall bear the responsibility of certifying that the ASWVC Bylaws are applicable and up to date.
Clause 3: The Bylaws Committee shall meet at least bi-weekly while the ASWVC Senate is active.
Section 3: The Budget and Finance Committee shall be composed of the Director of Finance, and at least three additional Senate members. The Director of Records, or designee shall serve as an Ex-Officio member of the committee for minute recording purposes.
Clause 1: The Director of Finance shall serve as the Chairperson, or assign a designee if absent.
Clause 2: The Budget and Finance Committee shall bear the responsibility of certifying the ASWVC Financial Code is enforced and up to date, reviewing budget proposals, and reviewing purchases made by the ASWVC.
Clause 3: The Budget and Finance Committee shall meet at least bi-weekly while the ASWVC Senate is active.
Section 4: The Outreach Committee is to be a standing internal committee of the ASWVC and
be composed of the Director of Marketing and at least three additional Senate Members. The Director of Records, or designee shall serve as an Ex-Officio member of the committee for minute recording purposes.
Clause 1: The Director of Marketing shall serve as the Chairperson, or assign a designee if absent.
Clause 2: The Outreach Committee shall bear the responsibility of making and executing marketing plans for ASWVC-sponsored Events.
Clause 3: The Outreach Committee shall meet at least bi-weekly while the ASWVC Senate is active.

Section 5: The Activities Committee is to be a standing internal committee of the ASWVC and be composed of the Director of Student Engagement, Director of External Operations, and three additional Senate Members. The Director of Records, or designee shall serve as an Ex-Officio member of the committee for minute recording purposes.
Clause 1: The Director of Student Engagement shall serve as the Chairperson, or assign a designee if absent.
Clause 2: The Activities Committee shall bear the responsibility of brainstorming and scheduling events for the ASWVC to host.
Clause 3: The Activities Committee shall meet at least bi-weekly while the ASWVC Senate is active.
Section 6: In the event of a dispute, the interpretation of the ASWVC Constitution and Bylaws shall be the responsibility of the internal ASWVC Bylaws Committee.
Clause 1: If the Bylaws Committee is not set to convene for a regularly scheduled committee meeting within five (5) business days, then the committee shall be required to convene for an emergency meeting to resolve the dispute within five (5) business days.
Clause 2: The Bylaws Committee shall be required to define the premise for the article in question and consider suggestions made by attending members at said meeting to resolve the dispute.


ARTICLE XII
Senator Requirements
Section 1: Any student who is currently registered for credit at West Valley College, who has
passed the Parliamentary Procedure test and has attended and signed in as a guest on the Senate Meeting Guest Sign-In Sheet for two (2) Senate Meetings will be granted voting rights at the beginning of the student’s third Senate meeting.
Section 2: Any Senator who has two (2) consecutive unexcused absences for regularly scheduled Senate meetings of ASWVC will have all rights and privileges, including voting, automatically suspended. All rights and privileges will be reinstated at the beginning of the student’s second consecutive regularly scheduled Senate meeting.
Clause 1: Attendance is defined as being present for at least 100% of the meeting or 1.25 hours, whichever is shorter.
Clause 2: Two (2) instances of tardiness shall equal (1) unexcused absence. For the purpose of calculating absences, tardiness is defined as arriving five (5) minutes after the predetermined meeting time. Call to order must take place at most five (5) minutes after the predetermined meeting time.
Clause 3: Two (2) or more consecutive unexcused absences may be considered as nonfeasance.
Clause 4: For an excused absence, senators must give 72 hour notice and status of absence (excused or unexcused) is subject to approval. After 72 hours, absence can only be excused in cases of emergency.
Section 3: Shall serve on at least one (1) internal committee, external committee, or ad-hoc committee at all times during the academic year, as they become available.
Clause 1: Senators shall serve on various committees as appointed by the ASWVC Vice President.
Clause 2: Senators shall be an active member of their committee.
Clause 3: Senators deemed inactive in a committee by the majority of the Executive Board may have privileges and voting rights suspended or be removed from the Senate. Attendance and tardiness in committee meetings will be considered the same as senate meetings. Two (2) unexcused absences will result in a removal of voting rights. For the purposes of counting attendance, two (2) tardinesses will be considered an unexcused absence.
Clause 4: Senators must make at least two committee reports at a regular Senate meeting per semester.
Clause 5: Members of the Senate who serve as chairs of ASWVC internal committees shall be exempt from making at least two committee reports at a regular Senate meeting per semester.
Clause 6: All ASWVC Senators shall have the ability to serve on more than one (1) internal committee, external committee, or ad-hoc committee throughout the duration of the academic year as approved by the ASWVC Vice President.
Section 4: Senators shall be an active member at ASWVC regular Senate meetings for the duration of the semester.
Clause 1: To qualify as an active Senator at the end of a semester, a Senator must attend
at least 51% of ASWVC Senate meetings.
Section 5: Senators have the right to request an excused leave of absence for up to one semester
without penalty. Senators will need to request the leave of absence before the first Senate meeting of the semester in question with details of the conflict and submit it in writing to the ASWVC Executive Board. Requests must be reviewed by the ASWVC Executive Board before becoming active.
Clause 1: An excused leave of absence is allowed for up to 1 semester.
Clause 2: Any Senate meetings missed before the request for a leave of absence will be counted against the Senator’s attendance record.
Clause 3: Senators who miss 2 consecutive semesters will be required to repeat the steps laid out in Section 1 to be re-granted voting rights.
Clause 4: Should a Senator require a leave of absence after the first Senate meeting has passed, they should contact the current Vice President and decide upon further action.

ARTICLE XIII
Student Organizations
Section 1: A student organization is any organization that organizes around a stated, legal and
authorized purpose.
Section 2: Each student organization must consist of a President, three (3) additional student officers, and a faculty advisor to be recognized as an organization eligible for funding and other benefits from the ASWVC.
Section 3: Proposed student organizations must register with West Valley College through an online or physical process prior to being eligible for funding or other benefits from ASWVC. This process is repeated each semester.
Section 4: Student Organization Funding
Clause 1: Each student organization shall start each semester with zero dollars ($0) in allotted funding, with funds to be added on a rolling basis based on ASWVC approval or fundraising endeavors.
Clause 2: Student organizations shall be limited to receiving a maximum of one thousand dollars ($1000) of funding per semester from the ASWVC.
Section 1: This limit shall not apply to individual fundraising endeavors pursued by an active, registered student organization.
Clause 3: All funding of student organizations by the ASWVC must be approved in a Budget and Finance committee meeting before being put forth to the Senate.
Section 1: A student organization must submit an agenda request to the ASWVC Director of Finance seventy-two (72) hours before a regular committee meeting for any action to be taken on the funding request.
A: The student organization must include in the agenda request a description of the purpose for which funding is needed, and the dollar amount of funding needed.
Section 2: A student organization representative must attend and give a detailed report of proposed spending for each endeavor to the committee.
A: Student organizations must include in the detailed report of proposed spending the goods or services that need to be purchased, proof of the scheduled future event or endeavor, and an explanation of the dollar amount requested as it relates to the goods or services needed. Failure to include these items will result in an automatic denial of the funding request.
Clause 4: The Senate shall have the final deciding vote to approve or reject club funding requests and will vote on any funding requests approved by the Budget and Finance committee at a regular meeting of the Senate.
Section 1: A student organization representative must attend and give a detailed report of proposed spending for each endeavor at a regular meeting of the Senate under the standing action item, Club Funding Requests, prior to spending the funds requested.
A: All funding requests must be discussed and voted on in this standing Senate item to be considered allocated.
B: Student organizations must include in the detailed report of proposed spending the goods or services that need to be purchased, proof of the scheduled future event or endeavor, and an explanation of the dollar amount requested as it relates to the goods or services needed. Failure to include these items will result in an automatic denial of the funding request.
Clause 5: Student organizations must share a student attendance list with the ASWVC Director of Finance following each endeavor at which ASWVC funds shall be used specifically for reimbursements.
Section 1: Student organizations must submit an event flyer or other proof of the endeavor’s occurrence with the ASWVC Director of Finance to receive reimbursements.
Clause 6: Student organizations must provide additional information as requested by the ASWVC Director of Finance or the ASWVC Advisor when spending or requesting any and all funds, and receiving reimbursements.
Section 5: Student Organization Fundraisers
Clause 1: All fundraising proposals must be approved by the ASWVC Advisor.
Section 1: A student organization representative must meet with and give a detailed report of the fundraising endeavour to the ASWVC Advisor.
Section 2: Student organizations must submit proof of the fundraising endeavor’s occurrence to the ASWVC Advisor.
Section 3: The ASWVC Advisor may deny any and all fundraising requests that are not equitable or allowed on the college campus at their discretion.
Section 6: The ASWVC shall provide a list of student organizations each semester eligible for funding so that the WVMCCD Finance department may allot a new fund account to each student organization.
Section 7: If it becomes apparent that any sanctioned student organization is failing to fulfill its
stated objectives or obligations, a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the Senate present and voting may revoke the funding.

ARTICLE XIV
Executive Board Responsibilities
Section 1: Duties and Responsibilities by Office.
Clause 1: President’s Responsibilities
A. 	Act as the Chief Executive Officer and official spokesperson of the ASWVC.
B.	Serve as the Chairperson of the Executive Board.
C.	Have the power to veto legislative actions of the ASWVC.
1. 	Must exercise the option of veto within seven (7) days of
the action by ASWVC.
2. 	Veto must be put on display as a public notice in the same
manner as Senate meeting agendas for at least one week.
3. 	Veto may be overridden by a two thirds (2/3) favorable
vote of the voting membership of the ASWVC at a regular scheduled meeting within the next two (2) regular meetings, following the posting and transmission of veto.
D. 	Appoint temporary replacements for any vacancies, until a permanent
replacement can be appointed.
1. 	Temporary replacements shall last 6 weeks, or until the next ASWC Senate meeting, whichever is longer in duration. A permanent appointment shall be appointed by the end of this duration.
E. 	Serve as an Ex Officio member on all ASWVC internal Committees.
F. 	Represent the ASWVC at the West Valley-Mission Community College
District Board of Trustees meetings, or delegate a representative from the ASWVC.
G.	Give a report to the ASWVC at every regular Senate meeting.
H. 	Shall attend, represent, and vote for ASWVC at all SSCCC Region IV
Meetings or appoint the ASWVC delegate.
I. 	Give monthly reports of SSCCC of the California Community College
meetings and business.
J. 	Act as liaison between local, state and federal government and the
ASWVC.
K. 	Inform the ASWVC of all government legislation, which pertains to
WVC.
L. 	Establish frequent communication with district administration.
M. 	Establish frequent communication with West Valley College students, faculty, and administration.
N. 	Coordinate with Student Services consistently throughout the year to discuss ASWVC activities and events.
O. 	Serve as the ASWVC representative to College Council or designate an
ASWVC delegate.
P. 	Serve on the Graduation Committee or designate an ASWVC designee.
Q. 	Serve on the Career & Internship Readiness Week Committee, or assign ASWVC designee.
R.	Hold ASWVC Executive Board Officers accountable to the following requirements:
    1. Ten (10) hours of on-campus time dedicated to ASWVC activities
    2. Attendance at all ASWVC-sponsored events.
    3. Attendance at all appropriate Executive Board, Senate, and Committee Meetings.
S. 	Coordinate appropriate disciplinary actions with ASWVC Advisor and appropriate Executive Board Member if Article XIV, Section 1, Clause 1R requirements are not followed.
T.	Serve as Chairperson for the Elections Committee, or assign a designee if running for office for the following academic year.
U. 	Bear the responsibility of holding all Executive Board Members accountable to their responsibilities, and recommend appropriate disciplinary action for any malfeasance.
V. 	Hold regularly scheduled meetings with appropriate Executive Board Members.
W. 	Review and approve event responsibilities assigned by the Director of Student Engagement to the Executive Board prior to events.
X. 	Represent the ASWVC at West Valley-Mission District Council meetings, or appoint a delegate from the ASWVC Student Senate or Executive Board.
Clause 2: Vice President Responsibilities
A. 	Perform the duties of the President in the event of their absence, disability,
or removal from the office.
B. 	Serve as the Chairperson of the ASWVC Senate.
C. 	Serve on the Executive Board of the ASWVC.
D. 	Enforce all rules, regulations, and procedures passed by the ASWVC
and/or stated in the ASWVC Constitution and Bylaws.
E. 	Shall maintain a record of all Senators with active voting rights.
F. 	Have the authority to delegate duties and responsibilities to all Senators.
G.	Bring forth amendments to the ASWVC Constitution and Bylaws to the attention of the ASWVC Senate as needed.
H. 	Form and dissolve committees, organizations and associations for specific
purposes to conform to the bylaws contained herein.
I. 	Have authority to appoint Senators to help with programs, events or any
other ASWVC business.
J. 	Give a report to the ASWVC at every regular Senate meeting.
K. 	Shall attend, represent, and vote for ASWVC at all SSCCC Region IV
Meetings as the alternate delegate or appoint a different ASWVC representative as the alternate delegate.
Clause 3: Student Trustee Responsibilities
A. 	Inform the ASWVC of all West Valley-Mission Community College
District Board of Trustees actions.
B. 	Serve on the Executive Board of the ASWVC.
C. 	Attend all West Valley-Mission Community College District Board of
Trustees meetings.
D. 	Announce appropriate West Valley-Mission Community College District Board of Trustees agenda items to the ASWVC.
F. 	Be responsible and accountable to the students of the district and their
elected officers.
G. 	Make themselves informed about those issues that have a direct or
significant impact on students of the district and such issues that are brought to the attention of the Student Trustee by any concerned students.
H. 	Gather student input and disseminate information by meeting at least once
per month, school calendar permitting, at a scheduled meeting of the student government organization at their respective College and in other ways as appropriate.
I. 	Be subject to recall in the manner prescribed by the procedures established
by the Board of Trustees.
J. 	Their external committee shall be the Board of Trustees meetings.
K. 	Give a report to the ASWVC at every regular Senate meeting.
L. 	Represent the ASWVC at West Valley-Mission District Council meetings, or appoint a delegate from the ASWVC Student Senate or Executive Board.
Clause 4: Director of Finance
A. 	Serve as Chairperson of the Budget and Finance Committee.
B. 	Perform and enforce all procedures outlined in the ASWVC Financial Code.
C. 	Serve on the Executive Board of the ASWVC.
D. 	Maintain the account for all ASWVC money on a day to day basis.
E. 	Submit a comprehensive monthly report of income, expenses, and state of reserves and progress of the budget of the ASWVC to the ASWVC Advisor.
F. 	Give a report every regular Senate meeting to the ASWVC of ASWVC financial status.
G.	Maintain the account for all ASWVC funds on a day-to-day basis.
H.	Keeps records of decisions made in meetings.
I.	Coordinates records with the ASWVC Advisor.
J.	Submitted all check requests and reimbursements.
K.	Give a report to the ASWVC at every regular Senate meeting.
Clause 5: Director of Marketing
A. 	Facilitate communication between students, and the ASWVC
B. 	Serve as a member of the Executive Board of the ASWVC.
C. 	Keep Students up to date on all issues affecting the Campus community.
D. 	Produce a current monthly calendar of events and post the aforementioned calendar in a way that is easily and readily accessible to ASWVC student officers and West Valley students.
E. 	Provide weekly updates on events and legislation to the Student body via ASWVC social media accounts.
F. 	Create and post flyers and advertisements.
    1. All flyers and advertisements should be prepared to send out before the event is held.
G. 	Chair of the Outreach Committee.
H. 	Give a report to the ASWVC at every regular Senate meeting.
I. 	Abide by the ASWVC Marketing Standards and Procedures.
Clause 6: Director of Records
    A. Maintain all ASWVC records including agendas, minutes, committee records, an authenticated copy of the ASWVC Constitution, Bylaws, Codes, and all standing rules and orders of the ASWVC and ensure that said documents are available for reference and public inspection at all times.
    B. Serve as a member of the Executive Board of the ASWVC.
    C. Serve as an Ex-Officio member of all ASWVC internal committee meetings for record-keeping purposes.
    D. Perform the recording, written and by device, of the minutes of all ASWVC meetings. In the event of their absence, the presiding officer shall appoint a member of the ASWVC to perform the minute taking functions for the duration of that meeting.
    E. Be responsible for ensuring that the minutes of the previous meeting of the
ASWVC are available to the public at least seventy two (72) hours prior to the next scheduled meeting.
    F. Update the ASWVC Constitution, Bylaws, Marketing Standards and Procedures, and Financial Code to reflect changes made in the Senate and by the student body.
    G. Coordinate updates to the ASWVC Constitution, Bylaws, and Financial Codes to West Valley College’s Information Services to reflect changes on the website.
    H. Give a report to the ASWVC at every regular Senate meeting.
    I. Must attend all ASWVC internal committee meetings for minute-taking purposes.
	Clause 7: Director of Student Engagement
    A. Serve as Chairperson for all Activities Committee meetings.
    B. Serve on the Executive Board of the ASWVC.
    C. Attend all ASWVC-sponsored events throughout the academic year.
    D. Functions as project manager, and overlooks and coordinates all student-run campus activities.
    E. Create and maintain an event calendar for each semester within one week before each semester begins.
    F. Keep students up to date on all events affecting the campus community.
    G. Provide updates on events to the Director of Marketing
    H. Coordinate all set-up and takedown procedures for campus events.
    I. Coordinate all volunteers at campus events.
    J. Maintain a schedule of which Executive Board officers are present at each ASWVC-sponsored event.
    K. Coordinate ASWVC-Sponsored event responsibilities of Executive Board Members to the Executive Board seventy-two (72) hours in advance of the Event. Event Responsibilities must be reviewed by the ASWVC President.
    L. Give a report to the ASWVC at every regular Senate meeting.
    M. Ensure that the ASWVC is hosting no fewer than two (2) (4) ASWVC-sponsored events per month.
Clause 8: Director of External Operations
    A. Serve on the Executive Board of the ASWVC.
    B. Research and contact outside vendors for campus events.
    C. Work with the Director of Student Engagement on the planning process for events.
    D. Facilitate payments with ASWVC Fiscal Assistant to vendors for campus events.
    E. Coordinate insurance policy for the use of external vendors for on-campus events.
    F. Serve as an Ex-Officio member on the Activities Committee.
    G. Give a report to the ASWVC at every regular Senate meeting.
	Clause 9: Director of Club Relations
    A. Serve on the Executive Board of the ASWVC.
    B. Serve as the official ASWVC representative to all clubs on campus.
    C. Give a report to the ASWVC at every regular Senate meeting.
    D. Remain in contact with all active clubs to consistently provide updates and any other relevant information which regards the ASWVC and clubs.
    E. Keep a record of all active clubs.
    F. Serve as a liaison between clubs and ASWVC.
    G. Plan and hold at least one club fair per semester.
    H. Supply clubs with opportunities to promote their organization throughout the academic year.
    I. Incorporate club participation in ASWVC events should the event include an opportunity for clubs to promote their organization and gain membership.
    J. Communicate with clubs to keep the student body informed of any opportunities to participate in club activities, meetings, or other business.
Clause 10: Student Senator
A.	Represent the student body by being the voice of West Valley College students to the ASWVC.
B. 	Carry out all duties and responsibilities as delegated to them through formal action of committees and/or by direction of the Executive Board.
C. 	Vote on all matters brought up in ASWVC Student Senate meetings, with the intent to foster positive change for all West Valley College students.
Section 2: General Executive Board Responsibilities
Clause 1: All Executive Board Members shall serve on the ASWVC Senate and follow appropriate procedures to become an active Senate Member.
    A. Executive Board members are not subject to take the Parliamentary Procedure Test if they have previously done so as an active Senator.
Clause 2: All Executive Board members are required to attend ⅔ of all ASWVC-sponsored events, with the exception of the ASWVC Director of Student Engagement, who must be present at all ASWVC-sponsored events
    A. Executive Board Members shall attend the set-up and clean-up portions of events, as well as perform any respective roles at the event.
    B. All attending Executive Board Members must be present for ⅔ of the event to be considered in attendance at the respective event.
    C. A minimum of five (5) Executive Board members must be present at such ASWVC-sponsored events.
Clause 3: All Executive Board Members are required to attend all ASWVC Senate Meetings and ASWVC Executive Board Meetings.
Clause 4: All chairs shall be responsible for the creation of agendas for their respective meetings.



ARTICLE XV
Financial Code
Section 1: The usage and distribution of ASWVC funds shall be subject to a governing
document known as the ASWVC Financial Code.
Clause 1: The ASWVC Financial Code shall be posted on a publicly available website in the same manner as the ASWVC Constitution and Bylaws.
Section 2: The language of the ASWVC Financial Code shall be enacted, rescinded or amended
by a two thirds (2/3) vote of the active ASWVC members with voting rights.
Clause 1: Such proposals shall be submitted as an agenda request to the ASWVC Executive Board, at least 24 hours prior to the Agenda posting requirements for the meeting at which they will be voted upon.
Section 3: Adoption of the changes to the bylaws shall become effective immediately following
the two-thirds (2/3) favorable vote of the Senate.
Section 4: The Director of Finance, along with the ASWVC Budget and Finance Committee, shall bear the responsibility of certifying that the ASWVC Financial Code is enforced and up to date.



ARTICLE XVI
Article of Changes
Section 1: These bylaws shall be enacted, rescinded, or amended by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the ASWVC Senate.
Section 2: Such proposals shall be submitted as an agenda request to the ASWVC Executive
Board, at least 24 hours prior to the Agenda posting requirements for the meeting at which they will be voted upon.
Section 3: These bylaws may also be enacted, rescinded, or amended by ed petition of ten
percent (10%) of the members of the Student Body.
Section 4: Adoption of the changes to the bylaws shall become effective immediately following
the two-thirds (2/3) favorable vote of the ASWVC or upon certification of the required features on the aforementioned petition.
Section 5: ASWVC Advisor, along with the Vice President, shall bear the responsibility of certifying the validity of the aforementioned petition.
